README.md, before:

# Udacity Project

## Investigate a Dataset - The Moive Database

### Table of Contents

[Introduction](#intro)  
[Data Wrangling](#wrangling)  
[Exploratory Data Analysis](#eda)  
[Conclusions](#conclusions)

<a id="intro"></a>

#### Introduction

##### Dataset Description

The movie dataset is a dataset of about 10,000 plus movies collected from The Movie Database (TMDb). This dataset contains information about movies produced and released from around 1960 to around 2015. The information contained about the movies in this dataset include the year of release of these movies, the cast of the movies, the user ratings and populuarity of these moives, the production budgets and revenues generated by these movies as well as the production companies of the movies and others.

Some columns of this dataset, such as the ‘cast’ and ‘genres’, contain multiple values separated by a pipe (|). In instances where we will use such columns in our analysis, we will do well to split the values into individual values in order to aid the analysis process.

The movie dataset consists of twenty (20) columns, namely:

- id
- imdb_id
- popularity
- budget
- revenue
- original_title
- homepage
- director
- tagline
- keywords
- overview
- runtime
- genres
- production_companies
- release_date
- vote_count
- vote_average
- release_year
- budget_adj
- revenue_adj

After carefully visually analysing the dataset, it was observed that some of columns may not be necessary for the kind of exploration and analysis that I want to make. On account of that, I have dropped these columns before the exploration and analysis begin. In particular, I have dropped the following columns:

- id
- imdb_id
- cast
- homepage
- director
- tagline
- keywords
- overview
- production_companies
- release_date

This leaves the following columns (11) to be used for the data exploration and analysis:

- popularity
- budget
- revenue
- original_title
- runtime
- genres
- vote_count
- vote_average
- release_year
- budget_adj
- revenue_adj

The columns and significance of each table are explained below:

- _popularity_: The movie's popularity shows how popular a movie is among its viewers which can be calculated by a number of ways, including using the number of user votes on that movie

- _budget_: The movie's budget indicates the cost of production of the movie. This includes production, development, marketing and advertising, casts and other allied costs

- _revenue_: The movie's indicates the revenue generated from the movie. This includes ticket prices at cinemas, streaming and television rights, foreign sales and, possibly, sales from merchandises

- _original_title_: This column indicates the movie's originally planned title or name

- _genres_: Genre indicates the movie's theme or category

- _vote_count_: The movie's vote count indicates the number of user votes on the movie

- _release_year_: This indicates the year in which the movie was released

- _budget_adj_: This the movie's production budget adjusted in include inflation over the years

- _revenue_adj_: This the movie's production revenue adjusted in include inflation over the years

##### Question(s) for Analysis

In order to analyse the dataset, and explore the (possible) relationship(s) between it's variables some questions need to be asked, questions which will be answered during the data analysis. On account of that, I have formed the following questions to explore further the relationships between the variables in the dataset:

1. What are the average production budget and revenues of movies during the period under review?
1. How have movie production budgets and revenues changed over the years during the period under review?
1. Does the revenue generated by a movie directly depend on the cost of production of that movie?
1. Does the popularity/user ratings of a movie and directly affect the movie's revenue generated?
1. a. Which genre(s) of moives cost(s) more to produce and/or generate(s) the highest revenues?
   b. Which genre(s) of moives are most popular from year to year?

The following explorator analyses seek to answer these questions

<a id='wrangling'></a>

#### Data Wrangling

In this section, we will load the dataset and clean for the analysis. Also, all errant data, if any, will be addressed.

<a id='eda'></a>

#### Exploratory Data Analysis

This section starts with the exploration and analysis of the dataset. This will included exploring the properties of the dataset, and making some inferences from the observed relationships between the variables of the dataset. Some visualizations of some of the observations during our analysis of the dataset are also created in this section.

<a id='conclusions'></a>

#### Conclusions

The TMDb dataset has some interesting characteristics about movies released from 1960 to 2015. These characteristics have been explored, analysed and visualized in the accompanying `Jupyter Notebook`. The analysis and visualizations give some insights to answer the questions posed before the start of the data analysis process.

The actual exploration and analysis of the dataset together with the conclusions can be found in the accompanying `Jupyter Notebook`

Commit message:

Added instructions on how to view the exploratory analysis

README.md, after:

# Udacity Project

## Investigate a Dataset - The Moive Database

### Table of Contents

[Introduction](#intro)  
[Data Wrangling](#wrangling)  
[Exploratory Data Analysis](#eda)  
[Conclusions](#conclusions)

<a id="intro"></a>

#### Introduction

##### Dataset Description

The movie dataset is a dataset of about 10,000 plus movies collected from The Movie Database (TMDb). This dataset contains information about movies produced and released from around 1960 to around 2015. The information contained about the movies in this dataset include the year of release of these movies, the cast of the movies, the user ratings and populuarity of these moives, the production budgets and revenues generated by these movies as well as the production companies of the movies and others.

Some columns of this dataset, such as the ‘cast’ and ‘genres’, contain multiple values separated by a pipe (|). In instances where we will use such columns in our analysis, we will do well to split the values into individual values in order to aid the analysis process.

The movie dataset consists of twenty (20) columns, namely:

- id
- imdb_id
- popularity
- budget
- revenue
- original_title
- homepage
- director
- tagline
- keywords
- overview
- runtime
- genres
- production_companies
- release_date
- vote_count
- vote_average
- release_year
- budget_adj
- revenue_adj

After carefully visually analysing the dataset, it was observed that some of columns may not be necessary for the kind of exploration and analysis that I want to make. On account of that, I have dropped these columns before the exploration and analysis begin. In particular, I have dropped the following columns:

- id
- imdb_id
- cast
- homepage
- director
- tagline
- keywords
- overview
- production_companies
- release_date

This leaves the following columns (11) to be used for the data exploration and analysis:

- popularity
- budget
- revenue
- original_title
- runtime
- genres
- vote_count
- vote_average
- release_year
- budget_adj
- revenue_adj

The columns and significance of each table are explained below:

- _popularity_: The movie's popularity shows how popular a movie is among its viewers which can be calculated by a number of ways, including using the number of user votes on that movie

- _budget_: The movie's budget indicates the cost of production of the movie. This includes production, development, marketing and advertising, casts and other allied costs

- _revenue_: The movie's indicates the revenue generated from the movie. This includes ticket prices at cinemas, streaming and television rights, foreign sales and, possibly, sales from merchandises

- _original_title_: This column indicates the movie's originally planned title or name

- _genres_: Genre indicates the movie's theme or category

- _vote_count_: The movie's vote count indicates the number of user votes on the movie

- _release_year_: This indicates the year in which the movie was released

- _budget_adj_: This the movie's production budget adjusted in include inflation over the years

- _revenue_adj_: This the movie's production revenue adjusted in include inflation over the years

##### Question(s) for Analysis

In order to analyse the dataset, and explore the (possible) relationship(s) between it's variables some questions need to be asked, questions which will be answered during the data analysis. On account of that, I have formed the following questions to explore further the relationships between the variables in the dataset:

1. What are the average production budget and revenues of movies during the period under review?
1. How have movie production budgets and revenues changed over the years during the period under review?
1. Does the revenue generated by a movie directly depend on the cost of production of that movie?
1. Does the popularity/user ratings of a movie and directly affect the movie's revenue generated?
1. a. Which genre(s) of moives cost(s) more to produce and/or generate(s) the highest revenues?
   b. Which genre(s) of moives are most popular from year to year?

The following explorator analyses seek to answer these questions

<a id='wrangling'></a>

#### Data Wrangling

In this section, we will load the dataset and clean for the analysis. Also, all errant data, if any, will be addressed.

<a id='eda'></a>

#### Exploratory Data Analysis

This section starts with the exploration and analysis of the dataset. This will included exploring the properties of the dataset, and making some inferences from the observed relationships between the variables of the dataset. Some visualizations of some of the observations during our analysis of the dataset are also created in this section.

<a id='conclusions'></a>

#### Conclusions

The TMDb dataset has some interesting characteristics about movies released from 1960 to 2015. These characteristics have been explored, analysed and visualized in the accompanying `Jupyter Notebook`. The analysis and visualizations give some insights to answer the questions posed before the start of the data analysis process.

The actual exploration and analysis of the dataset together with the conclusions can be found in the accompanying `Jupyter Notebook`. Kindly open the `Investigate_a_Dataset.ipynb` file to see the actual data exploratory analysis.
